Q1.) What do you understand By Database?

Answer:- 
	Databse is an organized collection of data, so that it can be easily accessed and managed.
We can organize data into tables, rows, columns and index it to make it easier to find relevant information.
Database handlers create a database in such a way that only one set of software program provides access of data to all the users.
The main purpose of the database is to operate a large amount of information by storing, retrieving and managing data.
There are many dynamic websites on the World Wide Web nowadays which are handled through database. For example, a model that checks
the availability of rooms in a hotel. It is an example of a dynamic website that uses a database.
There are many database available like MySQL, Sybase, Oracle, MongoDB, Informix, PostreSQL,SQL Server,etc.
Modern databses are managed by the database management system.
SQL or Structured Query Language is used to operate on the data stored in a database.SQL depends on relational algebra and tuple 
relational calculus.


Evolution of Databases:-

File-Based:-
	1968 was the year when File-Based database were introduced. In File-Based databses, data was maintained in a flat file. 
Though files have many advantages, there are several limitations.
One of the major advantages is that the file system has various access methods, e.g., sequential, indexed and random.
It requires extensive programming in a third-genereation language such as COBOL, BASIC.

Hierarchical Data Model:-
	1968-1980 was the era of the Hierarchical Dabase. Prominent hierarchical database model was IBM's first DBMS.
It was called IMS (Information Management System).
In this model, files are related in a parent/child manner.

Network data model:-
	Charles Bachman developed the first DBMS at Honeywell called Integrated Data Store. It was developed in the early 1960s, 
but it was standardized in 1971 by the CODASYL group.
In this model, files are related as Owners and members, like to the common network model.
Network data model identified the following components:
	-->Network schema (Database organization)
	-->Sub-schema (views of database per user)
	-->Data management language (Procedural)
This model also had some limitations like system complexity and difficult to design and maintain.

Relational Database:-
	1970-Present:- It is the era of Relational Database and Databse Management. In 1970, the relational model was proposed 
by E.F. Codd.
Relational databse  model has two main terminologies called instance and schema.
The instance is a table with rows or columns.
Schema specifies the structure like name of the relation, type of each column and name.
This model uses some mathematical concept like set theory and predicate logic.

Cloud Database:-
	Cloud database facilities you to store, manage and retrieve their stuctured, unstuctured data via a cloud platform. 
This data is accessible over the Internet. Cloud databases are also called a databse as service because they are offered 
as a managed service.
Some best cloud options are:
	-AWS (Amazon Web Services)
	-Snowflake Computing
	-Oracle Database Cloud Services
	-Microsoft SQL server
	-Google cloud spanner

NoSQL Database:-
	A NoSQL database is an approach to design such databases that can accommodate a wide variety of data models. 
NoSQL stands for "not only SQL".
It is an alternative to traditional relational databases in which data is placed in tables, and data schema is perfectly 
designed the databae is built.
NoSQL databases aer useful for a large set of distributed data.
Some Examples of NoSQL database system with their category are:
	-MongoDB, CouchDB, Cloudant (Document-based)
	-Memcached, Redis, Coherence (key-value store)
	-HBase, Big Table, Accmulo (Tabular)

The Object-Oriented Databases:-
	The object-oriented databases contain data in the form of object and classes. Objects are the real-world entity 
and types are the collection of objects.
An object-oriented database is a combination of relational model features with object oriented principles. It is an 
alternative implementation to that of the relational medel.
Object-oriented databases hold the rules of object-oriented programming. An object-oriented database management system 
is a hybrid application.
Object-oriented programming properties:-
	-Objects
	-Classes
	-Inheritance
	-Polymorphism
	-Encapsulation
Relational Database Properties:-
	-Atomicity
	-Consistencty
	-Integrity
	-Durability
	-Concurrency
	-Query Processing

Grapg Database:-
	A graph database is a NoSQL database. It is a graphical representation of data. It contains nodes and edges. 
A node represents an entity and edge reperesents a relationship between two edges. Every node in a graph database represents 
a unique identifier.
Graph databases are beneficial for searching the relationship between data because they highlight the relationship between 
relevant data.
Graph databases are very useful when the database contains a complex relationship and dynamic schema.
It is mostly used in supply chain management identifying the source of IP telephony.