Q5.) What do you understand By Data Redundancy?

Answer:-
	In DBMS, when the same data is stored in different tables, it causes data redundancy.
Sometimes, it is done on purpose for recovery or backup of data, faster access of data, or updating data easily. Redundant 
data costs extra money, demands higher storage capacity and requires extra effort to keep all the files up to date.
Sometimes, unintentional duplicity of data causes a problem for the database to work properly, or it may become harder for 
the end user to access data. Redundant data unnecessarily occupy space in the database to save identical copies, which leads 
to space constraints, which is one of the major problems.

Problems that are cuased due to redundancy in the database
	Redundancy in DBMS gives rise to anomalies and we will study it further. In a database management system, the problems 
that occur while working on data include inserting, deleting and updating data in the database.

1. Insertation Anomaly:
	Insertion anomaly arises when you are trying to insert some data into the database, but you are not able to insert it.
2. Deletion Anomaly:
	Deletion anomaly arises when you delete some data from the database, but some unrelated data is also deleted; that is, 
        there will be a loss of data due to deletion anomaly.
3. Updating Anomaly:
	An update anomaly arises when you update some data in the database, but the data is partially updated, which causes data 
	inconsistency.

Advantages of data redundancy in DBMS:
-Provides Data Security: Data redundancy can enhance data security as it is difficult for cyber attackers to attack data that are 
 in different locations.
-Provides Data Reliability: Reliable data improves accuracy because organizations can check and confirm whether data is correct.
-Create Data Backup: Data redundancy helps in backing up the data.

Disadvantages of data redundancy in DBMS:
-Data corruption: Redundant data leads to high chances of data corruption.
-Wastage of storage: Redundant data requires more space, leading to a need for more storage space.
-High cost: Large storage is required to store and maintain redundant data, which is costly.